README.md, before:

# Python Boilerplate

- This repository is meant to be used as a fast starter point.
- The Python version is the 3.10.
- The project runs inside Docker using docker-compose.
- The project has configured a [Github Action](https://github.com/pmareke/python-boilerplate/actions) which runs on every push to the `main` branch.

## Requirements
- You only need to have [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) installed.

## Folder structure

- There is a `tests` folder with the tests files.
  - In order to add new tests please follow the [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/7.1.x/getting-started.html) recommendations.
- The production code goes inside the `src` folder.
- Inside the `scripts` folder you can find the git hooks files.

## Project commands

The project uses [Makefiles](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/manual/html_node/Introduction.html) to run the most common tasks:

- `help` : Shows this help.
- `local-setup`: Sets up the local environment (e.g. install git hooks).
- `build`: Builds the app.
- `update`: Updates the app packages.
- `install package=XXX`: Installs the package XXX in the app, ex: `make install package=requests`.
- `run`: Runs the app.
- `check-typing`: Runs a static analyzer over the code in order to find issues.
- `check-format`: Checks the code format.
- `check-style`: Checks the code style.
- `reformat`: Formats the code.
- `test`: Run all the tests.

**Important: Please run the `make local-setup` command before starting with the code.**

_In order to create a commit you have to pass the pre-commit phase which runs the check and test commands._

## Packages

This project uses [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org) as the package manager.

### Testing
- [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/7.1.x/contents.html): Testing runner.
- [pytest-xdist](https://github.com/pytest-dev/pytest-xdist): Pytest plugin to run the tests in parallel.
- [doublex](https://github.com/davidvilla/python-doublex): Powerful test doubles framework for Python.
- [expects](https://expects.readthedocs.io/en/stable/): An expressive and extensible TDD/BDD assertion library for Python..
- [doublex-expects](https://github.com/jaimegildesagredo/doublex-expects): A matchers library for the Expects assertion librar.

### Code style
- [mypy](https://mypy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/): A static type checker.
- [flake8](https://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/): A tool for style guide enforcement.
- [yapf](https://github.com/google/yapf): A Pyhton formatter.
- [pylint](https://github.com/pylint-dev/pylint): A static code analyser for Python.

## Contributors
Special thanks to:
- [GoldraK](https://github.com/GoldraK).

Commit message:

feat: replace flake8 and pylint with ruff

README.md, after:

# Python Boilerplate

- This repository is meant to be used as a fast starter point.
- The Python version is the 3.10.
- The project runs inside Docker using docker-compose.
- The project has configured a [Github Action](https://github.com/pmareke/python-boilerplate/actions) which runs on every push to the `main` branch.

## Requirements
- You only need to have [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) installed.

## Folder structure

- There is a `tests` folder with the tests files.
  - In order to add new tests please follow the [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/7.1.x/getting-started.html) recommendations.
- The production code goes inside the `src` folder.
- Inside the `scripts` folder you can find the git hooks files.

## Project commands

The project uses [Makefiles](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/manual/html_node/Introduction.html) to run the most common tasks:

- `help` : Shows this help.
- `local-setup`: Sets up the local environment (e.g. install git hooks).
- `build`: Builds the app.
- `update`: Updates the app packages.
- `install package=XXX`: Installs the package XXX in the app, ex: `make install package=requests`.
- `run`: Runs the app.
- `check-typing`: Runs a static analyzer over the code in order to find issues.
- `check-format`: Checks the code format.
- `check-style`: Checks the code style.
- `reformat`: Formats the code.
- `test`: Run all the tests.

**Important: Please run the `make local-setup` command before starting with the code.**

_In order to create a commit you have to pass the pre-commit phase which runs the check and test commands._

## Packages

This project uses [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org) as the package manager.

### Testing

- [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/7.1.x/contents.html): Testing runner.
- [pytest-xdist](https://github.com/pytest-dev/pytest-xdist): Pytest plugin to run the tests in parallel.
- [doublex](https://github.com/davidvilla/python-doublex): Powerful test doubles framework for Python.
- [expects](https://expects.readthedocs.io/en/stable/): An expressive and extensible TDD/BDD assertion library for Python..
- [doublex-expects](https://github.com/jaimegildesagredo/doublex-expects): A matchers library for the Expects assertion librar.

### Code style

- [mypy](https://mypy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/): A static type checker.
- [yapf](https://github.com/google/yapf): A Pyhton formatter.
- [ruff](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff): An extremely fast Python linter, written in Rust..

## Contributors

Special thanks to:
- [GoldraK](https://github.com/GoldraK).
